[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome to this
edition of "Beyond Belief."
You know, I've had a lot
of guests on this program
and a lot of guests
on our radio show.
And there's one guy that
stands out all the time
as one of the
preeminent investigators
in the world of the paranormal.
His name is Joshua P. Warren,
and we've got him right now
on "Beyond Belief."
Josh, good to have you here.
>>JOSHUA P. WARREN:
Always a great pleasure
to be with you, George.
Thank you.
>>NOORY: I will always
remember you, your legacy,
for the rest of my life.
And we'll talk about a
little bit later on--
Robert the haunted dog scared
the living daylights out
of everybody who listened to you
that night on "Coast to Coast."
Unbelievable.
But you do a lot of
different things.
I would call you a
paranormal researcher,
but you cover ghosts,
UFOs, wishing machines.
You do it all.
What's your favorite subject?
>>WARREN: I think my
favorite is still ghosts,
because ghosts was
really what I started
studying when I was young.
And I found that if you stick
with ghosts long enough,
eventually they connect to UFOs.
And eventually, UFOs
connect to cryptids,
and that it all connects
to psychic phenomena.
And it becomes a really
big interesting circle
of strange phenomena.
It reminds me of that great
quote by Charles Fort.
You can measure a circle
beginning anywhere,
so I'm fortunate
now that I've seen
the many different
facets of this field we
call the paranormal.
>>NOORY: You also
spend a lot of time
now going between North
Carolina and Puerto Rico.
How come you're in
Puerto Rico all the time?
>>WARREN: Well, you
know, my hometown
is Asheville, North
Carolina, where
I have my museum and my
laboratory and ghost tours,
but the Bermuda Triangle
has always fascinated me,
because the Bermuda Triangle
captures the essence of what
we were just talking about.
It captures that idea that the
paranormal is a phantasmagoria
of many strange things.
And what you find is
that in some places,
like Asheville, you have
miniature Bermuda triangles,
but there's no substitute
for going to the real Bermuda
Triangle.
And I own the Bermuda Triangle
Research Center in Puerto Rico.
>>NOORY: Now, what
does that center do?
>>WARREN: We study all
the anomalous activity
in the triangle, but
especially the middle
of the triangle, which is
why I'm in Puerto Rico.
And we especially are fascinated
by many of the UFOs that
have been documented there.
And what we're
finding, George, is
that some of the
UFOs in Puerto Rico
are not like the traditional
structured flying saucers
that we're all used to.
>>NOORY: Why not?
>>WARREN: They
look very bizarre.
Some of these things
have irregular shapes.
They almost seem to
be shapeshifting.
>>NOORY: Hmm.
>>WARREN: They interact--
>>NOORY: Are they biological?
>>WARREN: You know,
I think, George,
that these may actually indeed
be biological UFOs, what
I call OUFOs, or organic UFOs.
>>NOORY: What if they're
creatures in their own right?
>>WARREN: Some of these
things have indeed
been reported as similar
to big flying jellyfish.
And to me, that doesn't
seem so implausible,
because it may be that these
were the original earthlings,
and that we are the aliens that
have sort of appeared later on.
And we're still trying to figure
out the human origin story.
But these may be creatures that
are more advanced, more highly
evolved, and they might
almost be a combination
of what we usually consider
organic and inorganic meshed
together.
>>NOORY: Interesting take.
Now, draw us a mental map
of the Bermuda Triangle.
Where we talking here?
>>WARREN: Well,
generally speaking,
the triangle is the patch of
ocean between Miami and Puerto
Rico and the island of Bermuda.
And a lot of people just think
of the triangle as a place
where ships and boats and
people mysteriously disappear.
And yes, that does happen.
But even more than
that, we have the UFOs.
We have the USOs,
which are the ones that
actually go into the ocean
and disappear into the water.
>>NOORY: Those fascinate me.
>>WARREN: Yeah,
those are amazing.
We have got cryptids,
like the chupacabra,
which came from Puerto Rico.
You have some of the
creepiest ghost stories.
For example, Old San Juan is
the oldest city in US territory,
with plenty of pirate ghosts
and dungeons and tales
along those lines.
There is a lot of activity that
happens in that entire patch
of the world.
And I've also
noticed that there is
a very low gravitational field
on that part of the planet.
And I am working on trying to
see what the connection may
be between gravity and our
paranormal experiences.
>>NOORY: Tell us the history
of the Bermuda Triangle.
How did we know about it?
Was it Charles Berlitz?
>>WARREN: Well, Charles
Berlitz popularized
the idea of the Bermuda
Triangle that we now
have in his famous book
that came out in the 1970s,
but stories about
the area being active
go back hundreds and
hundreds of years.
I mean, when Columbus--
>>NOORY: Real stories.
>>WARREN: Oh, yeah.
When Columbus was sailing
to the New World in 1492,
he recorded in his
official logbooks
all kinds of weird activity
in that part of the ocean.
He would see lights on
the horizon and lights
that would rise up into the sky
and go in and out of the water.
He, on a number of occasions,
talked about his compass
going haywire.
That caused some
navigation issues.
And so we have a
long, long tradition
of people experiencing
weird stuff.
>>NOORY: So it's been
around a long time--
>>WARREN: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: --in terms
of knowledge up.
>>WARREN: Yeah,
and of course, you
could go even back
thousands of years
and look at some of the strange
creatures and UFO type activity
reported by the Mayans,
which were very, very close
to that part of
the ocean as well,
and even some of the indigenous
peoples around Florida
talking about seeing what
we would call UFOs today.
>>NOORY: I've
sometimes wondered,
because Atlantis may have been
out there, that when it sank,
it took with it some kind
of crystal or something
that has an effect out there.
>>WARREN: Well,
there is no doubt
that Atlantis may have been
a real place in that area.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>WARREN: For example, right in
the triangle, near Puerto Rico,
we have what's called
the Puerto Rico trench.
It's the deepest spot
in the Atlantic Ocean.
It's almost 30,000 feet deep.
So if you were to take Mt.
Everest and set it
down in this trench--
>>NOORY: You wouldn't see it.
>>WARREN: Well,
just a little tip.
>>NOORY: Just the tip.
>>WARREN: Just a little
tip would be sticking up.
We have scarcely explored
what's down in that trench.
And it's funny to me because
you hear people say this,
but it's true, we do know
much, much more about the moon,
and for that matter
even other planets--
>>NOORY: Than our own planet.
>>WARREN: --than what's at
the bottom of the ocean.
>>NOORY: Homeland Security has
a video from 2013 over Puerto
Rico, and it's really strange.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- This is actual
Homeland Security footage
shot at the Aguadilla
Airport around 9:20 PM
on April 25, 2013.
An infrared thermal
camera spotted
this object flying
over 120 miles per hour
around the airport.
It had no squawking
transponder and did not
communicate with the tower.
All aircraft were
immediately grounded.
The object has no wings or
rotor and a weird, almost
shapeshifting appearance.
It suddenly dips into
the Atlantic Ocean,
where you can still
see it speeding just
below the surface of the
water at 95 miles per hour.
It continues to dip in and
out of the water a few times
until finally emerging, now
joined by a second object.
Thermal imaging proves this
is not an optical illusion.
Then the two objects
dip one last time
into the Atlantic
Ocean, though the camera
continues to search for them.
They are close to the
deepest spot in the Atlantic
Ocean, the Puerto Rico trench,
almost 30,000 feet deep,
nearly equal to
the height of Mt.
Everest.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: My gosh, Josh.
What is that thing?
>>WARREN: Well, for one thing,
I can tell you with certainty
that is authentic footage.
That footage has been
studied in great detail
by a group of
mainstream scientists
who wrote a thorough, very
technical 162 page report.
No one doubts its authenticity.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>WARREN: The fact
that it was captured
by Homeland Security
on thermal camera,
which gives us even more
data, makes this one
of the most important
pieces of footage
that has ever been captured.
>>NOORY: And reliability.
>>WARREN: There's no
doubt that's real.
They had to ground all
the aircraft that day.
>>NOORY: They did?
>>WARREN: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Just because
of that object?
>>WARREN: Because
of that object.
Now, that is
significant, because look
at how dismissive
this object was of all
the security around an airport.
>>NOORY: Nobody
could do anything.
>>WARREN: Nobody
And so the big question--
what is this thing?
Well, because it has a
shapeshifting appearance,
because that it morphs
so easily from air
into water and back out--
>>NOORY: And keeps going.
>>WARREN: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Keeps going.
>>WARREN: 95 MPH under
the surface of the water,
then emerges with
the second one--
I must tell you--
this is subjective--
but it almost seems like there's
a playfulness between the two
objects when they come out and
they go back down together.
Now, I wondered,
is this a machine
with a little guy sitting
inside the steering wheel?
I didn't get that impression.
And so it was as
I started looking
at other reports of similar
craft in Puerto Rico, things
that locals and residents
have been capturing for years,
and hearing their
stories, that's
when I began to realize
these things are
sensitive to human
consciousness.
>>NOORY: I didn't
get a perspective
of the size of this thing.
How big do you think it was?
>>WARREN: The scientists
estimate that it
was about six feet in diameter.
So it was not gigantic.
>>NOORY: Not big.
>>WARREN: But it certainly has
no wings, no propeller, no jet
propulsion.
There is no conventional
means of propulsion.
It couldn't be a drone
or something like that.
And it seems very likely
that if this is a machine,
it's a kind of machine that
may also be advanced enough
to be conscious.
>>NOORY: Right.
It thinks for itself.
Well, if you had a specialized
computer AI system,
it would do that.
>>WARREN: That's a great point.
An AI system might be,
for us, indiscernible
from that kind of technology.
And when we think of
this word organic,
often we think of humans,
because we're very egocentric.
But you have to
realize humans are
made of iron and copper and
zinc and magnesium, sulphur.
>>NOORY: Same thing that was.
>>WARREN: So it's
how you arrange
these things that determines
what you ultimately get.
And so by calling these
possibly OUFOs or organic UFOs,
we may be opening the
door here to a broader
conversation on what
we are sometimes
dealing with in this field.
>>NOORY: Have you
coined that phrase?
>>WARREN: Yes.
>>NOORY: OUFOs?
>>WARREN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Was there much
buzz in Puerto Rico
during this episode?
I mean, did it hit the papers?
Was it on television?
Did it hit the media?
>>WARREN: One of the
most interesting things
about this for me was that
because I stay in Puerto Rico
part time, I was down there
when this was captured.
Now, Puerto Rico
has a lot of people.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>WARREN: But it's
still just an island,
and word travels quickly.
And everybody knows everybody
one way or another, it seems.
>>NOORY: Sure, sure.
>>WARREN: There
was such a buzz all
over the island the next day.
The gossip was, hey,
my brother-in-law works
at the Homeland Security
and guess what they saw.
And everybody was scrambling
to try to get this footage.
And it seemed like that it
was never going to emerge.
And then eventually,
it was leaked.
>>NOORY: How soon did
the video pop out?
>>WARREN: I would say it came--
well, it came to my attention
probably about six or seven
months after the incident.
>>NOORY: Months.
>>WARREN: So it took it a
while to get to the internet.
>>NOORY: That's a while.
That's a while.
>>WARREN: But you have to
realize, I mean, to this day,
no one knows who leaked it.
And this is a serious
matter, because it's
one thing to say, well, this
is something for the wacky UFO
people.
This is airport security.
>>NOORY: This is a breach.
>>WARREN: That's exactly right.
Since this occurred,
have you learned anything
more about this?
>>WARREN: Yes, I have.
I started talking to a
lot of the residents who
were capturing some
of the best footage
of these strange
objects, often traveling
at a very high rate of speed.
And what I found was
that some of these people
told me that they could summon
them, that they could literally
go out and meditate.
>>NOORY: Let their mind,
consciousness, do its thing.
>>WARREN: That's right,
that they would send out
a telepathic signal
that would attract
these almost on command.
So I decided to test
this out myself.
And of course, George, you
and I even worked together--
>>NOORY: We have
done this before.
>>WARREN: --on an experiment.
You recorded a message
inviting visitors to appear.
>>NOORY: I think
we invited them.
>>WARREN: Well, we got
one of these things that
appeared on our own camera,
came down, created the squealing
noise, and then shot
back up into the sky.
>>NOORY: Explain
what that message was
and how you sent it.
>>WARREN: Ultimately, it was
a very friendly open message
to any visitors
who want to come.
It was on the
anniversary of the Wow!
Signal.
So this was August of 2014.
And what we did was take that
message that you prerecorded,
distributed it to
ham radio operators
all around Puerto Rico who
knew exactly what frequencies
they should broadcast in order
to break out into outer space,
to break out of the
Earth's ionosphere.
In addition to that, we also
made this message available
freely on the
internet, so we really
don't know how many
people around the world
may have been participating
in their own way.
So we were broadcasting it.
We were using wishing
machines and radionics
to set coordinates.
And we had people just sending
out their mental invitations.
And we were able to attract
these things, which takes me
back to this idea
that maybe this is
something that is partly
organic, because it
is sensitive--
>>NOORY: Right.
>>WARREN: --to the human mind.
>>NOORY: You had mentioned-- and
we just saw the video of this
object going into the
water and out again--
this happens a lot
in Puerto Rico.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- I met a man named
Luis Aymat who took
this photo in 2012 near Lajas.
The cows were spooked
on his uncle's farm,
and his photo revealed this
anomaly overhead, unseen by him
when the photo was taken.
And then I met this
man, Daniel Matos Velez,
a lifeguard who has
captured many strange things
off the coast of Boqueron.
This particular object is
first partially submerged
in the water, and then
suddenly, it's in the sky.
Daniel explained these things
moved so quickly you cannot
usually see them
with the naked eye,
only upon review of
photos or video footage.
And he shared some
remarkable insight with me.
Daniel said he is a direct
descendant of the Taino
Indians.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: What's the
significance of that?
>>WARREN: Well, I found that the
Tainos, the indigenous Puerto
Ricans, the ones who met
Columbus when he arrived
in 1493, they had these deities
they called zemis, which they
represented in these
sculptures that
look very much like these weird,
dark, roughly saucer shaped
objects that we see in
much of this footage.
They call them
lesser gods, and they
believe they came from the
sky, and they held them
in the highest regard.
And the more I researched
the Taino culture,
the more I realized
that the ancient Puerto
Ricans seemed to be just
as aware of these things
as we are today.
But what really blew my mind was
when Daniel Matos Velez, said,
Josh, I'm going
to share something
with you because you seem
like a good-hearted person.
>>NOORY: I love it
when locals say that.
>>WARREN: Isn't that nice?
And so here I am on the edge of
my seat, like I am right now.
>>NOORY: Tell me, tell me.
>>WARREN: And he said, there
is an ancient Taino symbol that
has been passed down
from father to son,
father to son for generations.
It's never been made public,
and we use this symbol
in order to meditate and
attract these things.
And he said, I am going to
give this symbol to you,
but you have to promise
that you will never
reveal it to anyone else.
And he drew a symbol.
He said it didn't matter
if this is in stone.
Doesn't matter if
it's a piece of paper.
What matters is the
pattern of the symbol.
He gave that to me,
and he said, whenever
you're about to go out and
attract these things, just
stare at the symbol for a few
minutes and meditate on it.
And every time I have done
that, I have had success getting
something anomalous to appear.
>>NOORY: Why would
the symbol do that?
>>WARREN: Well, I became
really curious at that point
about this same issue.
What is the significance
of a symbol?
And then it reminded
me of my studies
that I've done with Robert
the doll, for example.
It reminded me of my
studies regarding sigils.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>WARREN: Sigils are magical
symbols that have been used
in all cultures
throughout history--
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>WARREN: --by
magicians and witches.
>>NOORY: Everybody.
>>WARREN: Witches, warlocks,
sorcerers of all kinds.
And they use it
as the final stamp
at the end of a ritual
or some magical practice.
Now, it's usually an
abstract-looking thing.
And it is supposed to exemplify
the form of the energy that
was put into that intention.
It defies and
transcends language.
This is almost like a little
antenna for that ritual.
And so if you come into
contact with that antenna,
it exposes you to that
energy, and you become
a part of the magic intention.
>>NOORY: Did other
cultures use symbols,
like the Hindus
and the Buddhists?
>>WARREN: Every
single culture known
to modern man that has
ever been on this planet
use some kind of
symbol, otherwise
we don't know about it, I
guess, because they weren't
leaving any traces behind.
But yes, the idea of
taking some type of thought
and representing it
as a symbol seems
to be a staple of
humanity itself.
You don't see animals
doing that so much.
It's possible some apes might
border on that sometimes,
but that's a uniquely human
thing to try to take a thought
and represent it that way.
And you know it's funny, George.
I was just speaking recently,
I guess just today, about this.
Now, that we text
each other, our texts
get shorter and
shorter and shorter.
And we're leaving out
unnecessary consonants
and vowels.
>>NOORY: We're doing
initials for things.
>>WARREN: Yeah, you
can get a lot said.
>>NOORY: Let Me Know, LMK.
>>WARREN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Stuff like that.
>>WARREN: We are
essentially reverting back
to symbols, symbols in
Egyptian hieroglyphics,
where one character
represents a lot
of different thoughts or at
least one significant thought
form.
And so this is a
very practical thing,
and it's almost like we're
coming full circle here,
as we are learning to use
symbols all over again.
>>NOORY: Do you think somebody
manifested that object?
>>WARREN: I think it's
certainly possible.
It may be that these things
that I call OUFOs kind of
have a mind of their
own, but they take notice
if somebody wants
to attract them.
It reminds me of
that great quote
from the movie "The
Mothman Prophecies."
>>NOORY: With Richard Gere.
>>WARREN: With Richard Gere.
And his character is
being sort of tormented
because he can't understand why
these mothman type creatures
are being attracted to him.
>>NOORY: And he has
these flashbacks.
>>WARREN: Yeah.
So he goes to an expert,
and the expert says,
well, you notice them, and they
notice that you notice them.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>WARREN: And so I think these
things are all around us.
But sometimes when you
pay attention to them,
they realize that.
>>NOORY: They sure do.
Well, this ability to manifest
things through these symbols
is quite extraordinary,
isn't it?
>>WARREN: Well, it is,
because it tells us
a lot about the construction
of reality itself,
that relationship between
mind and matter and energy.
And it also makes us
think, perhaps in a way,
there's something almost
telekinetic going on here.
Maybe the mind can create--
>>NOORY: Maybe.
>>WARREN: --even more
than we believe it can.
And we just need focus,
and these symbols,
even though they're
abstract, allow
the mind to focus in
some particular way
to send out a particular
wavelength that will
trigger something in reality.
>>NOORY: Do you have
to concentrate in order
to manifest when you
have these symbols,
or do you just put it
down and let it happen?
>>WARREN: In his
experience, Daniel
said he would just sort of
relax and look at the symbol.
And then he would
take his cell phone,
point it out, say, over
the water, close his eyes,
mentally think of
inviting whatever's
out there, and then just
slowly scan from right to left
and then left to right.
And then he would
watch his footage,
and he would have something.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
Remarkable.
>>WARREN: So he portrayed
it as a very relaxed thing.
And that's how I've
treated it as well.
>>NOORY: Was this first
video-- was there any sound
associated with it?
>>WARREN: With his first video?
>>NOORY: The one we saw
from Homeland Security.
>>WARREN: No.
If there was, that has
never been released.
>>NOORY: So the object
was silent, we think.
>>WARREN: Well, the footage
didn't have any audio.
>>NOORY: But sound
does have an effect
on some of these symbols.
>>WARREN: Oh, yeah.
>>NOORY: Take a look.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[END PLAYBACK]
That looks like we are looking
at a jet engine, didn't it?
>>WARREN: Very much so.
>>NOORY: What was that?
>>WARREN: Well, because
of my interest in sigils,
I started looking into
different ways of creating them.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>WARREN: And that led me to
develop a field of research
I called para-cymatics.
Essentially, what we do
is take different tones.
We play them through
an audio speaker,
and then we have a
container of water
on top of that audio speaker.
Now, the tones can be
modified so that there
is a message in the tone.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>WARREN: And different messages
create different patterns.
We never know what's
going to pop up.
That's up to mother nature.
And so for example, the first
time I experimented with this,
I sat down in front of a
microphone, and I said,
I'm trying to attract a ghost.
And then I played that tone.
I viewed the pattern in
the water using infrared,
ultraviolet, and laser light.
>>NOORY: It picks
up the tones, right?
>>WARREN: Absolutely.
It takes that tone, that
nonphysical vibration,
and turns it into
a physical pattern.
I took a picture of that.
So now I have a little symbol.
My wife went to bed.
And unbeknownst to
her, I put this sigil
on the outside of
the bedroom door.
Now, she's usually a
very sound sleeper.
>>NOORY: You're evil doing that.
>>WARREN: I've been
told this, yeah.
So that night, I was
staying up watching a movie.
About 4:30, my wife comes
downstairs and said,
did you come into the bedroom?
I said, no.
>>NOORY: Oh, oh.
>>WARREN: And she said, well,
this house must be haunted,
because something
keeps shoving me.
And I'm like, yes, it worked.
I was ecstatic.
She was not.
>>NOORY: Did you tell
her what you did?
>>WARREN: Oh, yeah.
I told her what I did.
>>NOORY: She wasn't
too happy about that.
>>WARREN: For me, it
was a Eureka moment.
>>NOORY: You did
experiment on your wife.
>>WARREN: I did.
Yeah.
It's not the first time.
But she has gotten a promise
I'll never do that again.
But I was so inspired
I started making
other sigils for different
purposes, different things--
more psychic ability.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>WARREN: Incredible dreaming.
>>NOORY: And you keep
the symbol the same?
>>WARREN: No, it changes
every single time.
>>NOORY: But, I
mean, you keep it
the same for that
specific purpose?
>>WARREN: For that
specific purpose.
So now I've developed a
catalog of what I call
sigils for different purposes--
>>NOORY: For different things.
>>WARREN: --that I freely give
out to the whole wide world.
And I have people contact
me every day from all
over the world telling me
these just astounding stories
about things that they've
been able to attract
into their lives.
Sometimes it's creepy,
sometimes it's good fortune.
You can use it for any
type of manifestation.
And it shows me that
whether you want
to attract a UFO, or a ghost,
or good luck, or more money,
or a better project,
or whatever it is,
these sigils apparently can help
us manifest things mentally.
>>NOORY: Well, the Chinese
believe, for example,
that the symbol of
the eight, right--
>>WARREN: Yes.
>>NOORY: --will manifest
money and wealth, as long
as you don't put greed into it.
And I'm going to tell
you an interesting story.
You know Glynis McCants,
the numerologist?
She's on "Coast to
Coast" one night,
and she's talking about symbols.
And she said, draw
a symbol of an eight
and put it in your
wallet or purse.
And then if you go to a casino
or you do something like that,
you will probably win.
Happens 8 out of
10 times, she says.
8 out of 10 times,
I'm saying to myself.
Come on.
So I had a friend of mine who
was listening to the show.
He's not with us anymore.
But he heard it, and he wrote an
eight and put it in his wallet.
He went to the casino,
and he won $2,000.
He never wins.
He's telling me this, and he
was a manager of a restaurant.
He's all excited.
And his name was George also,
and I said, George, there's
a secret to this, though.
I've learned this.
Don't be greedy.
You won, the symbol worked.
He didn't listen to me, Josh.
He goes back to the casino.
He's got the 8 in his wallet,
loses the entire $2,000.
There's a lesson
here, isn't there?
>>WARREN: There
is a great lesson,
and I'm glad that you bring
this up at particular,
because just recently, a friend
gave me a remarkable gift.
It is a coin made into a ring.
And that coin was taken
from a shipwreck in which
hundreds of people died
hundreds of years ago.
>>NOORY: Tragedy.
>>WARREN: So I got this,
and it's a beautiful piece,
but I thought, man,
is this cursed?
Because it went down
with all these people.
>>NOORY: Yeah, you would
think it was cursed.
>>WARREN: And then people who
tried to rescue the shipwreck,
they also had
tragedy and deaths.
And then I realized, you know,
there's a difference, though.
All those people who died
were going and looking
for the treasure.
They had that money lust.
This was a gift that just
appeared freely in my hand,
and there's a big
difference in, like you
say, having a greedy
mindset or just having--
>>NOORY: Or something powerful.
>>WARREN: --an
acceptive mindset.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
Let's look more at
how you use symbols.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[END PLAYBACK]
Now, that seems to
be a better picture
of the first one we saw.
It looked like the same symbol.
Was it?
>>WARREN: Well, it
varies actually,
because I have this giant
range of tones that I can play
and many different messages
that I can insert into them.
And what I found was that--
what we just saw there was
water and just plain white light
taking on various
forms and shapes.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>WARREN: But then
when I start changing
the way I'm viewing
it, and I view it
under infrared light and
ultraviolet light and laser
light, different
features of the symbol
appear that would
otherwise be somewhat
invisible to the naked eye.
>>NOORY: Does the
music, the frequency,
have anything to do with this?
>>WARREN: Oh, yeah.
Absolutely.
Well, what you
find is that there
is a relationship between the
type of speaker that you're
using, the size of the
container, the amount of water,
the density of the
water-- for example,
I've experimented with both
salt water and fresh water.
>>NOORY: Salt water
works better, doesn't it?
>>WARREN: Well, it just depends.
>>NOORY: I thought.
>>WARREN: It's different.
>>NOORY: It's more conductive.
>>WARREN: Well, but
it's also more dense.
And so it's definitely
a lot more conductive
when it comes to electricity.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>WARREN: But what
you find is that it's
a matter of tuning the special
relationship between all
the parts.
So you might have one
tone, and you get nothing.
And let's say you're playing
something like 2,000 hertz.
You get nothing.
You bump it up to 2,100 hertz,
you get a big crazy symbol,
and then you take it to
2,300, you get nothing again.
It's a very particular
nuanced method.
And so I found that
getting this standardized
is going to be a
challenge, because this is
a brand new field of research.
>>NOORY: It really is.
And nobody else is
really pioneering this.
>>WARREN: You have people out
there who are creating patterns
using cymatics, but I don't know
if anybody else is doing what
I'm doing, which is
taking this technology
and applying it to sigils
and magic and paranormal.
>>NOORY: And day-to-day life.
>>WARREN: Exactly.
Manifestation, it's like--
I hate it when people
think that manifestation
has to be applied to
just the spooky things--
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>WARREN: Just the
ghosts and the UFOs.
>>NOORY: How can people
watching this program
apply these symbols
for their own lifestyle
and beneficial lifestyle?
>>WARREN: Well, it's
easy to attain a sigil.
All you have to do
is go to my website.
They are freely available.
>>NOORY: joshuapwarren.com.
>>WARREN: Thank you,
George. joshuapwarren.com.
>>NOORY: I will
remember that forever.
>>WARREN: And I always tell
people no period after the P.
>>NOORY: That's right.
Just all put it together.
>>WARREN: And if you
go to my website,
you will find all of these
different types of sigils
for different purposes
listed there for free.
>>NOORY: Relationship,
money, job.
>>WARREN: That's right.
>>NOORY: Stuff like that.
>>WARREN: You don't have
to sign up for anything.
>>NOORY: Are you a witch?
>>WARREN: I don't really
think of myself as a sorcerer,
but technically I guess I am.
>>NOORY: You could be.
>>WARREN: In a moderate way.
>>NOORY: You put on good spells.
>>WARREN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: That's what you do.
Well, I believe anything
you try to project out there
is going to come back to you.
But if you get one of these
sigils, all you have to do
is print it out.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>WARREN: Put it
in a place where
you're going to see it
at least four or five
times throughout the day.
>>NOORY: OK.
Do you say anything to it?
Do you sing to it?
Do you hum?
>>WARREN: You could,
but I don't do anything.
I just look at it.
Also, you can just keep
it on a digital device,
like keep it on your cell phone.
It doesn't necessarily
have to be printed out--
>>NOORY: Could you just
put it in your pocket too?
>>WARREN: Put it in your pocket.
In my pocket, I
usually keep one.
And so by simply
staring at it, I
believe that it changes
the brain waves.
>>NOORY: Can we kind of
do a reverse engineered
with the symbols and
turn it into some kind
of modern symbolism for us?
And then what would that do?
>>WARREN: That's one
of my next projects.
>>NOORY: You're
going to be the one.
>>WARREN: I hope so,
because imagine this--
when Thomas Edison
created his phonograph,
he essentially had
a horn, a funnel.
And he would speak into
it, and that vibration
would be magnified
by a little needle.
>>NOORY: Etched.
>>WARREN: And yeah, it would
etch a groove into a wax
cylinder that was spinning.
And then if you took
that wax cylinder,
and you handed that to somebody,
and said, what is this?
Well, I don't know.
They had no clue
what they're holding.
But you take that wax
cylinder and you put it back
into that system,
and you reverse it,
so that now the needle
picks up the grooves,
sound magically comes out of
the funnel, out of the horn.
>>NOORY: It's magic.
>>WARREN: This is exactly
the same kind of thing
that I believe we might be
able to do with these sigils.
If in my para-cymatics
research I'm
able to take these
vibrations, these tones,
and understand how they
turn into different types
of symbols, I should be able
to take some of these symbols
all throughout history
and somehow energize them
so that we can pick up the tone
or the energy form from them
and be exposed to whatever
that language or mental energy
was that was put into them,
literally back engineering
these symbols just as we
would back engineer a wax
cylinder in Edison's day.
>>NOORY: We have made reference
to Robert the Haunted Doll.
>>WARREN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Tell us
about this thing.
What is Robert the
Haunted Doll when
he's down in Homestead,
Florida in a glass case?
>>WARREN: Robert
the Haunted Doll
is the most infamous of
the creepy haunted dolls
in the world.
>>NOORY: Ever made.
>>WARREN: Yeah.
He's well over
100 years old now.
He's quite large.
>>NOORY: Made by a family?
>>WARREN: Well, the
story in Key West,
Florida goes that there
was a wealthy family that
had a little boy named Robert.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>WARREN: And they also had
a servant from the islands,
and the servant became
disgruntled with the family.
And the next thing you know,
she's presenting the little boy
Robert with, at that
time, a life-size doll--
>>NOORY: All right.
>>WARREN: --that she
also called Robert.
So to prevent confusion, they
started calling the little boy
Eugene or Gene.
That was his middle name.
And they called the doll Robert.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>WARREN: The little boy
became obsessed with this doll.
>>NOORY: It was his buddy.
>>WARREN: All
throughout his life.
When he became a grown man--
>>NOORY: He kept the doll.
>>WARREN: Yeah.
His wife didn't like it,
because he spent more time
with the doll than the wife.
He had a little room made with
little furniture for the doll.
>>NOORY: And he's dressed up.
>>WARREN: Oh, yeah.
He looks like a little sailor.
>>NOORY: A little sailor boy.
>>WARREN: And in fact,
sometimes, his wife
would appear in
town with bruises.
And people would
go to him and say--
>>NOORY: Bruises?
>>WARREN: --are you
beating your wife?
>>NOORY: Oh boy.
>>WARREN: And he would
say, Robert did it.
>>NOORY: Oh.
>>WARREN: And so the
doll took on this rather
sinister reputation.
After he died, and the
wife sold the house,
she left the doll in the house.
>>NOORY: Just left it upstairs--
>>WARREN: She left it--
>>NOORY: --in the attic, right?
>>WARREN: In the attic.
For years, people claimed they
would see that doll running
around the house.
Eventually, when the house was
sold, residents of the house
said the doll would come
to life and run around.
A little girl claimed that
he strangled her one night.
>>NOORY: So he was
like a demonic doll?
>>WARREN: Well, some
people viewed him that way.
You'll never catch me
saying that, George.
I'll tell you that.
>>NOORY: He strangled
someone and you
don't think he's demonic?
>>WARREN: If you say bad
things about Robert the Doll,
guess what could come
crawling through your window?
>>NOORY: Well, what could
you say good about him,
if he strangled
some little girl?
>>WARREN: Well, I'm not going
to say anything bad about him.
>>NOORY: Or bruised a woman?
>>WARREN: Well, I
met him, though.
I was the only
person in the museum
aside from the lady
at the front desk.
I walked into that room.
The walls are covered
with hundreds of letters
from people all over the
place begging forgiveness,
because they visited him
and were disrespectful,
or they took a picture
without asking for permission.
>>NOORY: He doesn't like that.
>>WARREN: No.
So I walked in,
and I tell you, he
looked like a little man
sitting there, George.
He didn't look like a doll.
>>NOORY: And he's
in a glass case.
>>WARREN: He was
He's sitting in a rocking chair.
And I swear to you when
I first saw his face,
it looked to me
like he's very cold.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>WARREN: And I stopped,
and I said, Robert, my name
is Joshua P. Warren.
I have traveled a long way to
get to know you, to study you,
and to do a report on you
that will be heard by millions
of people, blah blah blah.
And I said, I'm asking
for your permission,
and I tell you, at
that point, maybe it
was just my imagination, but
it looked to me like his face
softened into a little smile.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>WARREN: Yep.
>>NOORY: Did his eyes
seem to follow you?
I think everybody can
say they experience
that he has these little beady
black eyes, kind of dull,
but there's no doubt about it.
He's a creepy looking guy.
But the funny thing is,
when I went down there,
they told me that that
glass case around him
had not been removed in
years, four or five years.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>WARREN: They had a
couple of guys come out
with suction cups.
They lifted this big
heavy glass case off.
I knew that UV light does not
pass through glass very well.
And I shine the UV light
on him, and this symbol
appears on his sleeve.
>>NOORY: What kind of symbol?
>>WARREN: It looked like a
little distorted snowflake.
now, this was invisible
to the naked eye.
If I didn't have the UV light
on it, you would never know.
>>NOORY: What's the
significance of the symbol?
>>WARREN: Well, I went back.
This is what got me into
symbols and sigils and all this.
I was talking to you
about it on the air.
And a caller called
in and said, this
sounds like it might come
from this ancient grimoire.
>>NOORY: Mhm.
>>WARREN: And I
started studying.
And sure enough, I
found a book that's
at least hundreds
of years old that
has symbols that different
types of magicians would use--
>>NOORY: Magical.
>>WARREN: --in their magic
rituals for thousands of years.
And there is that symbol in that
book or something close to it.
>>NOORY: What does
it say next to it?
It's used for--
>>WARREN: It is used for
animating inanimate objects.
>>NOORY: So when people
talked about seeing Robert
scurrying behind a window.
You see that look, ch-ch-ch,
could have been him.
We've got to get you
back on "Beyond Belief"
and talk about ghosts
and poltergeists.
>>WARREN: Sounds perfect.
>>NOORY: There's something
going on in that area.
And people who want
to get a hold of you,
the website again is--
>>WARREN: Please go
to joshuapwarren.com,
and you will find all kinds
of interesting goodies
all there for free.
>>NOORY: And can they email
you there too if they want?
>>WARREN: Absolutely.
Just scroll down to the bottom.
You'll find my email address,
and I read every single email.
>>NOORY: Josh, thanks
for being on the program.
>>WARREN: Thank you, George.
>>NOORY: Many things that
we've talked about here
on "Beyond Belief"
with Josh P. Warren,
including of course the
submersible UFOs, what
an incredible story that is.
And then of course,
Robert the Haunted Doll,
who is a wonderful doll and
a pleasant little sailor.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]